# CryptoStockZ

## Summary

This repository contains the resolution of the final project of the master's degree in Blockchain and Big Data at the Complutense University of Madrid. This project consists of a decentralized application (Dapp) implemented in the Ethereum blockchain network with which it is intended to solve a great problem in real life such as the falsification of exclusive products and the consequent distrust of customers when purchasing such items.

In response, CryptoStockZ was born, an Ethereum Dapp that takes advantage of the main characteristics of blockchain technology to give truthfulness and traceability to the products that wish to adhere to the application. Thanks to this, it will no longer be necessary to go exclusively to the official brand store to purchase any of its products, but at the moment of purchase it will be possible to verify that the item for sale is really verified by the manufacturer.
The operation will be very simple: a manufacturer, at the time of producing a product, generates in the application a digital token with a unique identifier of each item and once it sells it to resale stores or directly to the end user, it transfers said token. The transaction will be recorded for life on the Ethereum chain and if said product were to be resold, the buyer could verify that this token was initially generated by the official brand.

In addition, to achieve greater customer loyalty to the application, the digital tokens will change their appearance depending on the level of exclusivity of the purchased product, the more times it is bought and sold and also the more that product is liked by other users. The objective of this is to ensure that users want to interact with the application as many times as they will thus achieve greater exclusivity in their digital tokens.

## Architecture

As can be seen, the project is divided into three parts:
- Smart Contracts
- Backend
- Frontend

### Smart Contracts

Smart Contracts contain all the logic necessary for the generation, transfer and modification of digital products represented by [ERC721 tokens](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/2.x/api/token/erc721), that is, non-fungible assets (collectibles). In short, they contain the main logic of the Dapp.
These functions, developed in the aforementioned Smart contracts, are translated into transactions within the chain of blocks where they have been deployed, giving rise to a record of the activities carried out and serving as storage for the corresponding digital products.

### Backend

The backend is in charge of storing all the necessary information of the system, that is, both the information that does not have a place in the blockchain, such as user data, product templates and lists wishes, such as the data of digital products that have been previously generated through Smart contracts.
This redundancy of information on digital products between the database and the blockchain has been designed with the following objectives:
 
- Provide a more agile data service to the frontend.
- Allow users to save gas when making onchain data queries (in the blockchain).
 
This design requires coordination between the database and the blockchain, which has been possible thanks to the events encoded in the Smart contracts. So when an interaction with the blockchain takes place, the resulting event is captured by the frontend to carry out the pertinent changes in the database.

### Frontend

Finally, the frontend is the visual part of the system. Provides users with the ability to interact with the application and, thus, carry out all the operations that it makes available to them, such as viewing the products they own, the transfer of those products as appropriate or the generation of new products if they have the necessary permits.
This component interacts, as has already been mentioned, both with the backend for the consultation and insertion of the data, as well as the Smart contracts deployed in the Blockchain for the creation, transfer and modification of the products.
